docs(tutorials): refresh token rotation (#1310)
nextauthjs/next-auth: www/docs/tutorials/refresh-token-rotation.md

```js title="pages/auth/[...nextauth.js]"
import NextAuth from "next-auth";
import Providers from "next-auth/providers";

const GOOGLE_AUTHORIZATION_URL =
  "https://accounts.google.com/o/oauth2/v2/auth?" +
  new URLSearchParams({
    prompt: "consent",
    access_type: "offline",
    response_type: "code",
  });

const options = {
  providers: [
    Providers.Google({
      clientId: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET,
      authorizationUrl: GOOGLE_AUTHORIZATION_URL,
    }),
  ],
  callbacks: {
    async jwt(token, user, account) {
      // Initial sign in
      if (account && user) {
        return {
          accessToken: account.accessToken,
          accessTokenExpires: Date.now() + account.expires_in * 1000,
          refreshToken2: account.refresh_token,
          refreshToken: account.refresh_token,
          user,
        };
      }

      // Return previous token if the access token has not expired yet
      if (Date.now() < token.accessTokenExpires) {
        return token;
      }

> 
>       // Access token has expired, try to update it
>       return refreshAccessToken(token);
>     },
>     async session(session, token) {
>       if (token) {
>         session.user = token.user;
>         session.accessToken = token.accessToken;
>         session.error = token.error;
>       }
> 
>       return session;
>     },
>   },
> };
> 
> /**
>  * Takes a token, and returns a new token with updated
>  * `accessToken` and `accessTokenExpires`. If an error occurs,
>  * returns the old token and an error property
>  */
> async function refreshAccessToken(token) {
>   try {
>     const url =
>       "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token?" +
>       new URLSearchParams({
>         client_id: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
>         client_secret: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET,
>         grant_type: "refresh_token",
>         refresh_token: token.refreshToken2,
>       });
> 
>     const response = await fetch(url, {
>       headers: {
>         "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
>       },
>       method: "POST",
>     });
> 
>     const refreshedTokens = await response.json();
> 
>     if (!response.ok) {
>       throw refreshedTokens;
>     }
> 
>     return {
>       ...token,
>       accessToken: refreshedTokens.access_token,
>       accessTokenExpires: Date.now() + refreshedTokens.expires_in * 1000,
>       refreshToken: refreshedTokens.refresh_token,
>     };
>   } catch (error) {
>     console.log(error);
>     return {
>       ...token,
>       error: "RefreshAccessTokenError",
>     };
>   }
> }
> export default (req, res) => NextAuth(req, res, options);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
/**
 * Takes a token, and returns a new token with updated
 * `accessToken` and `accessTokenExpires`. If an error occurs,
 * returns the old token and an error property
 */
async function refreshAccessToken(token) {
  try {
    const url =
      "https://oauth2.googleapis.com/token?" +
      new URLSearchParams({
        client_id: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
        client_secret: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET,
        grant_type: "refresh_token",
        refresh_token: token.refreshToken,
      });

    const response = await fetch(url, {
      headers: {
        "Content-Type": "application/x-www-form-urlencoded",
      },
      method: "POST",
    });

    const refreshedTokens = await response.json();

    if (!response.ok) {
      throw refreshedTokens;
    }

    return {
      ...token,
      accessToken: refreshedTokens.access_token,
      accessTokenExpires: Date.now() + refreshedTokens.expires_in * 1000,
      refreshToken: refreshedTokens.refresh_token ?? token.refreshToken, // Fall back to old refresh token
    };
  } catch (error) {
    console.log(error);
    return {
      ...token,
      error: "RefreshAccessTokenError",
    };
  }
}

export default NextAuth({
  providers: [
    Providers.Google({
      clientId: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID,
      clientSecret: process.env.GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET,
      authorizationUrl: GOOGLE_AUTHORIZATION_URL,
    }),
  ],
  callbacks: {
    async jwt(token, user, account) {
      // Initial sign in
      if (account && user) {
        return {
          accessToken: account.accessToken,
          accessTokenExpires: Date.now() + account.expires_in * 1000,
          refreshToken: account.refresh_token,
          user,
        };
      }

      // Return previous token if the access token has not expired yet
      if (Date.now() < token.accessTokenExpires) {
        return token;
      }

      // Access token has expired, try to update it
      return refreshAccessToken(token);
    },
    async session(session, token) {
      if (token) {
        session.user = token.user;
        session.accessToken = token.accessToken;
        session.error = token.error;
      }

      return session;
    },
  },
});
```

---
id: refresh-token-rotation
title: Refresh Token Rotation
---

> While NextAuth.js doesn't automatically handle access token rotation for OAuth providers, this functionality can be implemented using [callbacks](https://next-auth.js.org/configuration/callbacks).

Reviewer: Can we be optimistic here? 😊

```suggestion
While NextAuth.js doesn't automatically handle access token rotation for OAuth providers yet, this functionality can be implemented using [callbacks](https://next-auth.js.org/configuration/callbacks).
```
